README.md, before:

# cabal2pkgbuild

`cabal2pkgbuild` is a script used to generate proper PKGBUILD files from any `.cabal` file from Hackage, with the help of `cblrepo` (which is currently used to maintain Haskell packages on Arch Linux).

## Dependencies

These are the following dependencies on Arch Linux:

- cblrepo
- coreutils
- grep
- pacman
- sed
- zsh

## Usage

Create an empty folder, e.g., `my-haskell-packages`.

### Patch Folder

You *must* have an empty folder named `patch` within this folder.
This folder will be accessed by `cblrepo` to generate the proper PKGBUILD; you can have 3 kinds of patches:

  - <hackage_package_name>.cabal
  - <hackage_package_name>.pkgbuild
  - <hackage_package_name>.source

Essentially, the idea is to patch any misbehaving Hackage packages so that a proper, working Arch Linux package can be generated.
Refer to the [cblrepo](https://github.com/magthe/cblrepo) documentation for further explanation.

### Database Generation, PKGBUILD Creation, and Package Installation

Go into this folder, and create a file listing all Hackage packages, one on each line, that you'd like to create PKGBUIKLDs for.
This is called the `<hackage_packages_file>` file by convention.

The following is a sample `<hackage_pacakges_file>` file:

```
bindings-DSL
bindings-GLFW
GLFW-b
transformers-compat
contravariant
distributive
comonad
semigroupoids
bifunctors
generic-deriving
profunctors
reflection
distributive
MonadCatchIO-transformers
lens
linear
rosezipper
elerea
mersenne-random
vect
netwire
```

As you can see, the names of the packages are taken directly from the Hackage site (i.e., the case-sensitivity matches the original names on Hackage).
As the packages here are added in order, you should put them so that the dependencies are built first.
The `lens` package, for example, has a ton of dependencies and all of these are listed before `lens` itself.
It takes some trial and error to get this right (the `initdb-sync` mode will output failures), but it should not be too difficult.

We now run the script 3 times:

```
/path/to/cabal2pkgbuild.sh <hackage_packages_file> initdb-sync
/path/to/cabal2pkgbuild.sh <hackage_packages_file> pkgbuild
/path/to/cabal2pkgbuild.sh <hackage_packages_file> makepkg
```

The `initdb-sync` mode initializes the cblrepo database, populating it with all of the system Haskell packages already installed on your computer.[^symlink]
It then retrieves the latest Hackage package index, and then adds the listed packages in `<hackage_packages_file>`.
If you want to skip the sync with Hackage (e.g., on subsequent immediate runs of this script), use `initdb` instead of `initdb-sync`.

The `pkgbuild` mode removes all `haskell-*` folders in the current folder, before populating the current directory with all the Hackage packages' generated PKGBUILD folders.

Finally, the `makepkg` mode goes through each package and runs `makepkg` followed by `pacman -U` for that package.
This mode is a convenience mode: you can manually go into each generated PKGBUILD directory and do the usual `makepkg`/`pacman -U` combo yourself --- however, it is probably easier with this mode because you retain the dependency ordering information (the order of the packages in `<hackage_packages_file>`).
That is, if you manually built the packages yourself, you'd have to remember which packages to build first.

[^symlink]: NOTE: `cabal2pkgbuild`'s `initdb` and `initdb-sync` modes will *OVERWRITE* the file in `~/.cblrepo/cblrepo.db` with the one generated by it with a symlink.

Commit message:

Install as dependency if listed in dependency file

README.md, after:

# cabal2pkgbuild

`cabal2pkgbuild` is a script used to generate proper PKGBUILD files from any `.cabal` file from Hackage, with the help of `cblrepo` (which is currently used to maintain Haskell packages on Arch Linux).

## Dependencies

These are the following dependencies on Arch Linux:

- cblrepo
- coreutils
- grep
- pacman
- sed
- zsh

## Usage

Create an empty folder, e.g., `my-haskell-packages`.

### Patch Folder

You *must* have an empty folder named `patch` within this folder.
This folder will be accessed by `cblrepo` to generate the proper PKGBUILD; you can have 3 kinds of patches:

  - <hackage_package_name>.cabal
  - <hackage_package_name>.pkgbuild
  - <hackage_package_name>.source

Essentially, the idea is to patch any misbehaving Hackage packages so that a proper, working Arch Linux package can be generated.
Refer to the [cblrepo](https://github.com/magthe/cblrepo) documentation for further explanation.

### Database Generation, PKGBUILD Creation, and Package Installation

Go into this folder, and create a file listing all Hackage packages, one on each line, that you'd like to create PKGBUIKLDs for.
This is called the `<hackage_packages_file>` file by convention.

The following is a sample `<hackage_pacakges_file>` file:

```
bindings-DSL
bindings-GLFW
GLFW-b
transformers-compat
contravariant
distributive
comonad
semigroupoids
bifunctors
generic-deriving
profunctors
reflection
MonadCatchIO-transformers
lens
linear
rosezipper
elerea
mersenne-random
vect
netwire
```

As you can see, the names of the packages are taken directly from the Hackage site (i.e., the case-sensitivity matches the original names on Hackage).
As the packages here are added in order, you should put them so that the dependencies are built first.
The `lens` package, for example, has a ton of dependencies and all of these are listed before `lens` itself.
It takes some trial and error to get this right (the `initdb-sync` mode will output failures), but it should not be too difficult.

Optionally, create a file listing all Hackage packages in the first file that should be installed as dependencies (the `<dependencies_file>` file).

```
bindings-DSL
bindings-GLFW
transformers-compat
contravariant
distributive
comonad
semigroupoids
bifunctors
profunctors
reflection
```

We now run the script 3 times:

```
/path/to/cabal2pkgbuild.sh <hackage_packages_file> initdb-sync
/path/to/cabal2pkgbuild.sh <hackage_packages_file> pkgbuild
/path/to/cabal2pkgbuild.sh <hackage_packages_file> makepkg
```

Optionally, that last command can include `dependencies file`:
```
/path/to/cabal2pkgbuild.sh <hackage_packages_file> makepkg <dependencies_file>
```

The `initdb-sync` mode initializes the cblrepo database, populating it with all of the system Haskell packages already installed on your computer.[^symlink]
It then retrieves the latest Hackage package index, and then adds the listed packages in `<hackage_packages_file>`.
If you want to skip the sync with Hackage (e.g., on subsequent immediate runs of this script), use `initdb` instead of `initdb-sync`.

The `pkgbuild` mode removes all `haskell-*` folders in the current folder, before populating the current directory with all the Hackage packages' generated PKGBUILD folders.

Finally, the `makepkg` mode goes through each package and runs `makepkg` followed by `pacman -U` for that package.
This mode is a convenience mode: you can manually go into each generated PKGBUILD directory and do the usual `makepkg`/`pacman -U` combo yourself --- however, it is probably easier with this mode because you retain the dependency ordering information (the order of the packages in `<hackage_packages_file>`).
That is, if you manually built the packages yourself, you'd have to remember which packages to build first.

[^symlink]: NOTE: `cabal2pkgbuild`'s `initdb` and `initdb-sync` modes will *OVERWRITE* the file in `~/.cblrepo/cblrepo.db` with the one generated by it with a symlink.
